h1. Joshaven's irbrc

Installing Joshaven's irbrc will modify the default environment of your irb "Interactive Ruby" console environment (see Features).  This project comes with an install and uninstall method that is quite simple.  I encourage you to try it out.

I trust that this project will make your Ruby development experience richer.  If you have any questions or comments please feel free to contact me.

Sincerely,
Joshaven Potter <yourtech@gmail.com>

h2. Features

* Auto-Reloading of irb when the source files change (Sketches - http://sketches.rubyforge.org/)
* Auto-Loads many environments based upon the working directory (rails, development gems, cilantro, & other)
* IRB History
* Highlighting
* Automatic Indentation
* Shorter Prompt (">>")
* "clear" & "c" methods to clear the screen
* Pre-loads pp & readline
* Implements Object.pm, which pretty prints the methods of an object... try: [1,2].pm

h2. Install

# Copy and paste the following into your terminal:
<pre><code>mkdir -p ~/.sbin
git clone git://github.com/joshaven/irbrc.git ~/.sbin/irbrc
ruby ~/.sbin/irbrc/setup.rb</code></pre>
# Run 'irb' and enjoy!  Don't worry anymore about running "script/console" or requiring "lib/init.rb".
<pre><code>irb</code></pre>

h2. Notice

Do *not* remove the source code for this project, it is required for operation.

If your in the root of project directory then the project will (probably) be loaded... For instance, if you are in the root of Rails project you can simply type `irb` to open irb in Rails console mode.  If your project is not a Rails project, irb will attempt to load your environment using other conventions.  Inspect the source for details.


h2. Uninstall

To uninstall you should simply run the uninstall file...  The uninstall file will deal with restoring your previous irbrc file as well as cleaning up after its self.
<pre><code>ruby ~/.sbin/irbrc/uninstall.rb</code></pre>

h2. License

Joshaven's irbrc - An irb configuration file

Copyright (c) 2010 Joshaven Potter (yourtech at gmail.com)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software

Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
